time follow the order
and and wans and water purses commission
meeting for January 6
2025 like we usually do our commissioner
just
introduce m
Maron
R
um you want to add one thing to the
uh
agenda this Planning and
Zoning
webinar this going to be
happening March 22nd this year
anybody discuss this
we need to vot that in you yeah add
it this I move to add this into
the do seven is that new
business uh yeah probably
other
yeah and uh minutes from December 2nd
uh I didn't see
anything make a motion to approve the
minutes from December 2nd
second say hi hi
hi public comment um do we have anybody
here that wants to make the statement or
anything previous
meetings
okay so now we're on the permit
application
IWC
2412 Robert and Pamela mayor five Sunset
Lane replacement of existing 5 foot by
16t wood dock with a 4ot by
16 aluminum and composite same
location and uh anything wanted to just
I me it's pretty straightforward pretty
straight forward that is pretty straight
forward I I'll make a motion to approve
the application iww C2
24-12
second I don't know sorry
sorry yeah I it's just yeah got to go
through this there's nothing really I
was going to ask you though if you were
going to Anchor the dock you anchor
those do I mean right now it's just
sitting on center block so I was going
to just do the same thing okay if that's
permissible yeah just curious more than
yeah I don't see any reason to Anchor it
but I the only reason I would think of
is is if we have a B I don't
not
Anor in a in a situation when there was
a storm if it was anchored it might
there might be more pull and more damage
if it LO I know yeah I mean if it's
gonna be something that b would probably
just pull it out of the water yeah that
way it's easier if it's not anchored we
can just pick it up right right easier
to let's hope we ride out storm yeah
yeah I was always curious about that
because I see the lake sometimes like
pretty
rough sometimes
yeah guys
get yeah yeah for
sure yeah
inor thank
you we're good to go I'll send you per
okay so let's go to permit application
IWC
2413 the Andover field committee
Veterans Memorial
Field uh work in the Upland review area
to construct
and a
pavilion thank you
work think illustrious not but not
industrious
that all right so you've had an
application before you for a uh permit
for work in the Upland review area
basically to accomplish a series of
things the first is to construct a uh
three pickle ball court or a court that
accommodates or a playing surface that
accommodates three separate pickle ball
courts um the second is a construction
of a playground that consists of two
areas one area for kids uh of the like
three to five age range and one for
bigger kids um and then with the
potential for us installing a pavilion
also this plan also entails trenching
across Riverside Drive to put a water
spigot in electrical outlet where the
softball fields are uh on Riverside
Drive so all those much of that will
occur in the Upland review area um which
is why we're here before the commission
uh with the
application um what when is this going
to be
constructed so that's a good question
there's State funding involved so there
are an awful lot of regulatory hurdles
um the assumption is sometime in late
spring uh Public Works will do the
excavation for this project um followed
by the contractors probably pickle ball
courts first then playground then
fencing uh you know not sure exactly
when we're going to do the trenching but
we have a little more flexibility
because we're going to be using public
works to do most of the site work
so that would be
fall out of the range of
the wood turtle problem or issue not
problem uh so one of the things that was
there was uh I believe in his letter
Hank gave us a time frame at which he
wanted the silk fence installed it would
be Our intention to have the silk fence
installed regardless of where we are in
the
in time frame starting the rest of the
construction to have the sil fence
installed at the appropriate time into
his specifications which is basically a
continuous set of Sil fence facing the
river uh with turn backs at either end
so that any turtles that end up
following along the fence line will get
redirected back away from the
construction site
um so
yeah that's really that our goal is to
minimize any potential Wetlands impacts
and also this was designed in such a way
because there is a
Wetlands uh directly behind the area in
which we're
working that we are neither adding nor
subtracting water flow to that Wetlands
because we don't want to dry out the
wetlands and we don't want to make it
wetter than it is today so uh the sight
water that's getting there now will
continue to be directed there and um but
no additional water uh will be directed
there and no water that's going there
now will be directed somewhere else if
that makes
sense I guess we a flood plane you
really can't add or take away got to
keep try to keep it moving well you can
take away material from the flood plane
but you can't add more fill than exists
in the flood plane now so if you look at
the Topography of the map you'll see
from the original um and it's the
version that's online is easier to see
um but there is a fair bit of cutting
involved in other words the banks for
the parking areas are moved back and are
squared off so there will be a net
reduction of material in the flood plane
right so there will be very slightly
more storage capacity after we're done
um than before but it's a very small
amount because you know we're going to
be elevating the area where the pickle
ball courts are slightly and we're
reducing the bank slightly so there's a
net loss but not so in other words
there's a net gain of storage volume in
the flood plane which is what what is
kind of
required we're not looking to mitigate
that by taking material away somewhere
else on the site you know we're going to
deal with this site so that right there
uh you know there's no loss of flood
plane so I I did go over there just to
take a look at it does drop deep down
and then goes then you got that burm
right along the river correct corre
dropping spot is that the wet one you're
talking about yeah so if you start on
Riverside Drive you roll you can see
what where is used for parking now even
though it's not really established as a
parking area then you roll into a flat
area um which was where they excavated
gravel in the past
um and then behind that there was a burn
that was put there as part of the
original Dyke in the
1930s when the dam there used to be an
old Dam back there on Town property
that's still visible from town property
that was breached
in that breached in 38 or was that
breached in 50 there used to be a water
retention area passed there 55 and then
that also fed the where Public Works is
now used to be a water powerered mill so
that Dam fed through a series of
channels and powered The Old Mill there
and then dropped back into the river um
but that's that's been breached for many
years and the town has no intention of
building the dam back so that retaining
but what that retaining wall does is it
prevents uh
except under extreme conditions for the
water flowing over the
retaining wall and getting into the area
where the pickle ball courts are so that
area where the pickle ball courts
are can flood and does flood on occasion
not every year but certainly every two
or three years that lower area does
flood um and it drains slowly because it
doesn't have a direct path out of there
so it has to soak into the ground gravel
and dispersed that way so it comes up
very slowly and it goes down very slowly
but it doesn't see any real flow um it
might under a real 100e storm you know
or 500 year storm event but not that you
know any of us have ever seen really in
our lifetimes
there if that makes sense but yeah the
area directly behind that gravel area
you see it quickly turns to Wetlands
there and that was you know what's on
the map is accurate because those
Wetlands were flagged and that's staying
there yes correct it's shown um yeah
it's right kind of where the brush line
is right behind the construction area of
the project so you see where the pickle
ball courts are and then you see the
thick dash line thick Dash lines is it's
kind of in the woods like when you're
looking in the brush area that's not
cleared yeah that's the where the
Wetland is it's kind of from the back of
the cleared area to
the segment
right would it be possible to get the
wetlands in the Upland review area put
on the
drawing so the wetlands is is on the
drawing yeah it's gonna say wet is there
on there I'm not sure what your
yeah yeah this is the the Wetland that
is in Project area I couldn't
tell yeah the wetlands are are on the
mapping um and they were flaged by a
okay but isn't isn't the reason we're
here because the the work is in the
Upland review area correct so why
wouldn't we show the Upland review area
on the map well because we're ulating
that the entire project is within the
Upland review
area we're not claiming just a portion
of the whole thing I got it I
just
okay I mean specifically if you want a
map that shows a 200 foot boundary from
the wetlands indicating it's an Upland
review we could provide that I'm just
not sure what um
it just wasn't intuitively obvious
looking at the D work you know we say
that where it is since it's the Inland
Wetlands commission you would think we
would show the wetlands in the Upland
review area that's the reason we're
coming to get the uh get the
permit sure well I mean we are showing
the weapons on the the plan um
[Music]
um yeah I mean the the the full plan is
online in the wetlands
file so you should have access to that
um really the only reason we gave this
one out because one of the things we
realized we were missing that was
critical is a you know a stock pile area
Y and we just wanted to make sure that
you were aware that any stockpile area
we have on site will be located within
the the fencing
outline um so we shouldn't have any
problem with siltation and stuff getting
into the river or anything like that
that's all we're we're really trying
with this how long is the stock plan to
stay
there
um that's a good question I don't think
we're going
to need it there very long but like for
instance when we're
replacing so what's going to happen is
is and we've dug a couple test pits in
the area so we have a pretty impressive
thickness of good gravel under that area
already so we don't need to replace a
lot of the existing material because all
we would be doing is taking one set of
bank run gravel that's under there and
replacing it with different Bank Run
gravel from our fit so really we're
probably just going to take the existing
organic surface Material off of there um
and replace that with gravel and then
put on a layer of uh what's called
process and process is basically just
crushed stone with fine because that
compacts a lot better and holds up
better um kind of under wet conditions
and then pave on top of that okay so we
actually this the stock pile generally
speaking is just for the material we're
going to be removing from there um and
taking off site now a lot of this we can
put directly into our trucks like when
we peel off the top soil where the
playgrounds are going you know that I
would presume we would peel off and put
directly into trucks as opposed to
putting into a stock pile and then
Trucking it off site so we should have
fairly
minimal uh stock piles on site but
they'll always be some you know so where
that stock pile is located here that's
going to be
paved uh where that little circle is no
that that's going to be that's just a
temporary holding area for materials
okay um so so once desktop what's going
to be is that going to be like grass
grass area so presumably we're going to
restore this whole thing with grass
after we're done that's the that's the
gold the top soil in SE it
parking is going to be just along
Riverside Drive correct that's seeing in
it's areas that there's parking now the
only thing we're really doing is we're
taking the pervious gravel that's there
now essentially flattening it off and
getting it so the water flows correctly
ly and then Paving that local area so we
will that will increase the impervious
surface there U but that runoff will be
directed you see on the side of the at
the top of the drawing you you'll see a
little leakoff pad the majority of that
water is designed to run straight to the
leakoff pad and then behind the leakoff
pad will be a sale or a level spreader
that's just designed to slow down the
infiltration rate and C capure the
sediment coming off of it but that water
will all be directed back into the
wetlands where it's going now it just
you know the the goal here is to put the
same amount of water back and just use
the linear spreader to treat uh so
you're not pushing a lot of sediment
into
that why we choose to pave the parking
instead of leave at the pervious gravel
that it's there now
um
well that's a good
question I mean I think generally paved
parking
areas look better and hold up
better um one for the the disability
spots as well so there are 8 spots as
well so the fluidity of that space has
the handicap spot there as well in the
playground area
in it's the walkways are also paved just
to eliminated jaaz so do we know what
the square footage of impervious
surfaces that we're
adding between that and the pickle B
works we do I could certainly walk
upstairs and get that number for you if
you wanted it don't need it right this
minute I gu
know that there are some issues when we
get to planning and zooming that
discuss mitigating impervious
Services if we're in excess of I think
it's
2 don't know if we're there or
not the only other thing I would be
concerned with kind of going out Paving
is the salt application in the winter
time just because of that close to the
wons yep did you guys have any plan for
that or um the goal is the majority of
the water gets directed to that leakoff
pad and behind that is a Swale with with
the gold being the water to infiltrate
directly as opposed to you know just run
straight down into there but to be
perfectly honest I mean any salt on
Riverside Drive right now is sheep
flowing into that weapons anyway so
we're not really changing that a whole
lot um and more than likely that parking
lot I would question whether we really
even need to plow at in the winter
because to be honest we're not planning
on plowing the pickle ball courts
because that destroys the surface so and
you're probably not playing soccer in
the middle of the winter so there's not
going to be a whole lot of use of that
facil facility in the winter so I'm not
sure it really even
needs
um you know any kind of significant salt
application I'm okay with that is there
any other parking besides just like
going to be like 20
spots correct uh so I mean I know
there's some yeah if you think about
that site all total there are
essentially like three main parking
areas there's this one which is going to
end up more formalized when we're done
there is all the area along Riverside
Drive like if you watch soccer grains
you see everybody parks on the grass
right down there directly and then
there's the the major other parking area
at that's accessed off Long Hill um
because this is a combined site and we
have combined uses we're looking at
parking for the whole area right um we
do currently like if you
watch uh
when um Vale East was using the facility
between changeovers of soccer games they
were utilizing pretty much every single
space in that entire facility including
all of this but I think with Veil out of
the picture uh now I don't think you're
going to get cases it's in other words
we're not designing this to have you
know three pickle ball courts in use all
the playgrounds in use the Pavilion in
use and the soccer field all in use at
once we're we're planning for enough
parking so that between the three lots
you know sharing parking there's enough
that's what that's what we're gearing
this towards I was this what I was
asking the overflow parking basically is
on the grass yeah exactly and it does it
does fit under the town's regulations
for total parking capacity um based on
an athletic field with this athletic use
of this
sort I didn't see anything in the plan
that talked about a
meeting between the people that were
going to do the work and maybe the
weapons agent and the zoning agent
before it
started
and I think that might be helpful to
make sure that the people they're going
to do the work
actually know what the plan is you know
whether it's a pre-evolution brief or
just the
opportunity to
have Joe and Jim talk to the people that
are going to be doing the
work I don't see that being a problem I
mean the the plan at this point is to
have Public Works do all the excavation
and all the trenching for conduit so I'm
sure we can you could make it a
condition of approval for both agencies
and we'd be happy to comply with that
inde
y it's just we've seen in the past we've
had really nice plans and the people
that are out doing work don't have any
clue that the plans exist and they're
are doing their own
thing I don't think that would be the
case here but you know we have seen that
and it's
been it happens it happens the the past
n requires or sort of suggesting that as
well you know and so we would here to
with approval we're waiting for an n
will be updated and we would adhere to
that as well I'm not familiar with that
abbreviation with NDP um National
diversity data base okay so and then Joe
would we expect some kind of periodicity
for inspections of the work going on
just to make sure that
it's complying with the
plan I I mean you could put that you
could add that condition if you wanted
to what do you think would be a good
care should on
there I have tent if you want to
just um I don't know you can do every
I've seen every two weeks on other
tournaments okay I was thinking every
week might be nice yeah you can do that
too it doesn't I mean set the camera
whatever you feel watch the whole La you
know and you think that sounds
ridiculous
but you the I go back to the the house
that we built you know 422 Lake Road
where you know they were out it had the
whole driveway it put in through the
wetlands they were supposed to have
talked to you and Jim before they
started never did you know and it was
kind of a a rough start to that project
and uh we've had that on other ones too
where we haven't been out taking a look
so uh I know at Hank's letter he's
asking for a weekly inspection to make
sure there's no turtles in his little
benon
[Music]
area I guess you could probably do both
of those at the same time I don't know
if you're the guy who's going to grab
the turtle and try to get it out of
there if find what or
not but Hank's asking if somebody go out
there and inspect a weekly and so I
think that would be a good time to uh go
just make sure we're getting what we
inspect what we
expect think about are these bushes here
right next to the uh parking no those
are existing Boulders oh Boulders we're
just showing Our intention is to use the
existing landscape bers and just move
them back because right now there's a
much bigger gravel area than there needs
to be so we're moving them back making
the minimal parking
space necessary to be safe and then
realigning The Boulders and cutting the
material behind that which is why we
have no net fill when we add the courts
and Elevate the courts
that do you expect to have to add any
Shrubbery do
any of that kind of stuff afterwards or
is this not really planning on it
um you know obviously one of the
concerns is that where the edge of the
Woodline is next to the wetlands that is
getting pretty overgrown with
invasiv um I was going to offer the
wetlands commission if you guys want we
will clear some of the invasions as part
of the project but we certainly don't
have to so it's just a question whether
that's something that you guys want as a
commission or don't want be that
certainly I think we could go either way
yeah there's all the way through there
yeah pretty narrowly be much more the
aesthetic yeah if you want that cleaned
up as part of a project you know the
town wouldn't have an issue with that
just make that a condition and we'll put
it right in in our
workflow
yeah um You probably all saw we did uh
have a meeting with Hank Bruner um
obviously the the concerns from Wetlands
perspective uh regarding lightning um
and we kind of worked out of compromise
for uh you saw in this letter he asked
for both a maximum color temperature um
of Light which we're happy to abide by
as well as a stipulation that the liting
gets shut off after a certain period um
and again that is fine by us our
intention is not to light it unless it's
it's actually in use um and I would also
say that with the parking areas and this
is going to be something we would have
to discuss with the zoning commission
but we would certainly prefer to turn
the lighting off after a certain period
of time and just not light any of that
area after say 11 p.m. but it is a
parking area and it's going to be a lit
parking area so that's going to take a
the zoning commission would have to give
us permission to do that um but that
would be my goal
anyway that don't want to light any more
than I have to and light it any longer
than I have
to has going say like some parks say
dusk you know that Park is
closed yeah the the
only obviously if you do that you don't
need lighting to begin with right true
right um but there's two things one is
you lose quite a bit of time in the fall
when it gets dark earlier and it's still
perfectly temperature-wise playable
outside so we want to preserve the
ability in the pickle ball pts to be
able to use that after dark and also in
the summer when it's really hot it's
awfully nice to play
late um you know when it's starting to
cool off a little bit and lighting also
allows to do that so that is the the
goal with lighting the pickle and it can
be changed I mean if you saw an
abundance of use at
night I'm sure people would complain you
know there's no lighting or whatever I
mean it's something that could be
changed right as needed yeah I I don't
think that Our intention is not to have
people play and pickle ball uh on
midnight leagues or anything I think we
can establish a hard cut off time you
know for lighting there um and then
sequence the lights of the parking lot
lights whatever that time period is the
parking lot lights automatically go off
15 minutes later essentially so you know
CU once you're done playing we're not
really encouraging sit around and drink
beer out there there
so so are the lights just for the pickle
ball so there's the pickle ball courts
will be lit and the walkway will have to
be lit per our
regulations and then the parking area uh
will be lit
um not the soccer yes not the soccer
field no the soccer field lighting
itself absent anything else
is a$ 400 plus thousand project just for
soccer field lighting um and it would
have chewed up too much of our total
project budget if we were going to do
that we would have basically done the
soccer field lighting and probably not
anything else and the commission felt
that uh the first priority really was
the playground and the second priority
was the pickle allall Court um we
clearly have enough money and capability
to do both those um and the lighting so
that's our
intention anything you want to add into
the process you covered
it any
question I don't think so they still
still pulling over you know the paving
of the apartment spots as opposed to the
gravel like we have on the different
accesses to the rail trail in
that I don't know you certainly if
you're going to plow it having a pave
surface is good if you're not going to
plow
it um I'm not sure I'll get another
chance to think about that go forward
well the issue is that if you're
you have a fair amount of water there
and you either redirect that directly as
surface run off to the side or you let
it all flow through and you do more of a
more indepth Interceptor trench because
all that water that soaks into that
gravel there eventually runs down and
under where the pickle ball quarts are
there so you know there's there's
advantages and disadvantages resistable
ways but you can't put in curbing unless
you're going to pave it and the goal was
to intercept that water there and on the
road and get that away from the pickle
ball court as opposed to letting it
travel subsurface and intercepting it
before it gets to the pickle ball
court and the the playground committee
is really um focusing on the the
playgrounds to be Ada compant they want
to be able to accommodate anybody that
is that wants to be able to use the
playgrounds and just offs us from the
parking lot to the playgrounds also
creates a hurdle for the caregiver
trying to be able to utilize the
space however by some chance you decided
you wanted to require us to maintain
this largely as an impervious surface we
could certainly consider only Park you
know Paving the first three or so
handicapped spots
and the walkways and leaving the rest
gravel if that was
your or for that matter considering
requiring perious pavement but that's an
expensive proposition now is that what
these little circles are that uh go
around the playground thing is that the
impervious papers there or whatever so
yeah in speaking with Public Works um so
we wanted to be able to have access
around on the playground um just because
there's the walking paths over there so
if there's any work that needs to be
done over there by public work they need
to be able to get there so we also so
with this area also being PR to flooding
at different times of the year we wanted
to make sure there was some type of s uh
sturdy surface for vehicles to be able
to drive it and around um we've
considered the impervious pavers that
are filled with either a dirt or gravel
or even um a geog grid that you would
put uh underneath the the the grassy
area and you'd fill it up with sand they
usually like four to six inches thick
and then they actually plant grass on it
and it just stabilizes it so it doesn't
rut if it's really
squishy so yeah that's not intended this
portion that's in the check that you see
on your plans that's designed to be a
pervious material we're looking at a
couple of different
options probably we're going to go with
geog GRE just because it's considerably
less expensive and Public Works can
install that
themselves and that's a fully pervious
material and obviously the playgrounds
will be fully
perious um the impervious surface is
basically the courts potentially the
parking area and where the Pavilion
would go because that's going to have a
roof on it and that will likely be a
concrete slab
yeah I didn't have any other
questions help me out here a little bit
the conditions that we wanted
to that are are conditioned I think
there was one for sure the weekly
meeting meeting prior to uh prior to the
48 hours prior to the start of the
work 24 hours before 48 48
Hours 24 probably be good for that's
harder to
schedule then weekly inspections and who
are you spef who do you want to specify
at that meeting the
contractor yeah the guys who were
actually doing the work okay which you
know like the public works for a lot of
it
sure I'm interested in
having Jim and Joe there I would imagine
you would be there
too so Inland W agent and CEO and Hank
probably that sounds good
yeah and looking at that kind of the
pre-evolution brief somebody goes
through and briefs what we're going to
do and hopefully that matches up with
what the plan is and then when we go out
and see
it we don't see something totally
different
then the third condition of approval was
uh you the removal of the invasives oh
in the Wetland area
there we were just asked to
to uh have Joe down there and make sure
we have a common understanding what the
limits of clearing before I have Public
Works start cutting that stuff out
because I just want to make sure we're
not going past where your your comfort
zone is okay good topic for discussion
dur the pre-evolution
group that was number two or number
three the periodic inspections the free
job meeting and then removal of the ab
those are the only three that
so meeting 48 hours in advance zoning
weans with contractors
her and public
works and public works
also Public
Works contractors
[Music]
under
and remove the invas
second we meeting with 48 hours prior to
the start weekly inspections during the
job oh okay
right that's
the all of those conditions are
perfectly acceptable to the town
so Commission
uh we will approve the uh
wwwc
um
I chairman move to approve
application I wwc
2413 for proposed for proposed
construction of pickle ball courts
playscapes Pavilion area and Associated
parking and drain
structures in accordance with the
application submitted on November 25th
2024 and the site drawings St November
2024 this permit will include the
standard permit conditions as well as
the following special permit condition
the applicant will incorporate the
recommendations number one and three
included in the letter from Hank Bruner
a Consulting
herpetologist titled
re pickle ball court installation
Recreation Fields Long Hill Road this
dated December 23rd
2024 um also we' have we would like have
these other recommendations or uh
conditions um a meeting between the
zoning with the zoning in the Wetland
present 48 hours with the contractors in
the public works and the
herpetologist uh weekly
inspections done
by uh the the same parties the uh zoning
and
wetlands and the third condition
removing Union bases along the r
on the Riverside the uh project he
agreed upon invasiv he agreed upon
invasiv okay
y
okay um anybody want to
Second all in
favor I've already got myle ball and now
I
think one quick question unrelated to
this but have you guys submitted a yet
to the
town the for this year correct
no all
right uh did you get the paperwork from
the town for the
budget no
I I didn't get know I didn't get you
should have had an email to you about a
month
ago have your
[Music]
Maybe not maybe you don't
have I can give you
that but yeah yeah maybe clerk does not
have our new email because we do have a
new email possibly why we didn't get
that okay all
right um maybe I could just come down up
yeah you definitely could do that or you
could just give me a call tomorrow
morning I think you're I I feel like the
only two things in the commission budget
that I'm aware of are training budget
you know what you anticipate spending on
maintaining commission member training
and then the second thing
is uh yeah so the the compensation for
the meeting per but for that really all
you need to give me is how many meetings
you're going to conduct in the year on
average and then what the average length
of your meetings are and then it's our
job uh to figure to do the math for
that any
extra so if you gave me a call tomorrow
we could probably work through that real
quick and all right and in absence of
from submitting a formal budget we can
probably get the the information for
that um as a town I do recommend any
commission member that that has
Education and Training relative to this
job that you want to do I wholeheartedly
support you um so um definitely you want
a budget for some training dollars but
also be aware that if you ever go over
that that should never be an imposition
you um taking training that's in your
best interest um so if that ever becomes
a a consideration as you blown through
your training
budget let me know um going to the clear
Academy stuff the Connecticut land use
Academy is great training both for
wetlands and for zoning agents and I
believe the the Connecticut bar
Association land use training is coming
up um that's also a great one for you
know for both wetlands and Zoning
commission so I would encourage you to
attend that if you can um in regardless
of whether it's budgeted or not we will
definitely uh figure out how to pay for
that for
you other than that do any of you have
any questions for
me thank you for your your time
thank
you
$60
it I iess it C up yeah 40 I say think 40
last
year
yeah so I mean if you want a
budget I think that's what we did last
year was like I five or six people times
whatever the class was and we just put
that into the budget oh that's right you
did the I did yeah but I think that's
how we came up with whatever number we
came up with it wasn't very much for the
entire year and then right what you're
saying yeah we just like said yeah we're
gonna have a meeting every month that's
I just did it an hour 80 I think it's a
minimum of an hour is 84 bucks times 12
is a th000 like it goes over one month
there's no meeting it it's right that's
what we were saying
probably only had five or six meetings
so we just covered we'll put it to the
maap in case we met every month
and this way you should always have
enough money yeah then if you have
sidewalks or something they'll kind of
special so do you have to do anything if
we don't have a meeting no she loves
it this this and CBA are my easiest to
do so I like I like
CBA on to the
next issue new business I don't see
anything
there we'll skip that in the agent
report enforcement
actions yeah I just have two um four
Sunset L is the one that we talked about
last week during the Nutri worksheet
discussion and all that
the I put a had 14 by 20 foot shed he's
going to
um and then he was constructing a gravel
storm water infiltration system so
that's what they finished the worksheet
and figured out the design
so um approv that and then the other one
is just for um was for propane above
bound propane tank and then the gas line
trench which was the big thing that Happ
CU of
excavation um that's with an Upland VI
area so I've seen that before it was um
that
address yeah on
uh about four years three or four years
ago ongoing enforcement action oh really
yeah and just continues no well it's new
one no
but it got resolved so
yeah did he actually did
he did he he didn't make that he didn't
uh try to get he started the work and
then this no he came in first okay
violation
no you wonder sometimes do they learn or
do they just continue
yeah I don't think he was too happy to
go through all that
before it
work what was it there was
um 134 Wheeling Road
there's Timber Harvest they've been
working on it for a few years working on
the design it's one of the ones from um
nrcs and Yukon working on it with them
remove ash trees and it's not really
like a commercial Harvest it's more of a
like a wildlife and you know forestry
management type of thing so they put
um uh foot gravel down tracking pad in
that area and then they're working on a
forestry plan so we might see that
there's one one entrance that looks like
it's dry and then the other one that
there might be a good Crossing involved
with that so um might be coming coming
you know in the next few months or I
don't know they've been working on it
for a few years I don't howly that's
going to
happen
[Music]
no is he is it a private
yeah like clearing it to
build
no just the timber yeah because they're
they're kind of like there's a program
that Yukon and nrcs does where they come
in design like a management plan and
they help with the I think they help
with funding and stuff
too so they R the project there was
another one one of the guys on the
Conservation Commission had done on his
property
and then they had an informational
session they're trying to get other
people too I don't know that's how he
got
involved they help they do like an
invasive clearing program they kind of
try
for great it's a nice area over
there yeah that
some too
is that is that some of the land that
they were going to build the
highway they were going to build the
other Highway yeah maybe I'm not
sure4 extended all the way
to and then yeah there's another U 296
Lake Road they're working on an
application for a doc they're going
through all they didn't realize they had
to go through a commission so may maybe
something for next
[Music]
onebody What's the title of it just like
zoning train I was going to just add it
so CBA Education and Training planning
and zoning so is a PL of Planning and
Zoning training yes Connecticut land use
Municipal land
use it's good training there's probably
some stuff it's not it's Planning and
Zoning predominantly there's a session
for uh zoning board of appeals kind of
stuff and then I think there's a
specific session for the wetlands topics
and that's that's really good don't know
that you want to sit through six hours
of threee to get one hour of that but
you can kind of pop in and out but it
does have you know I think one of the
first things is how to run a meeting and
that kind of stuff
but so there's a little bit there I'm
going to be going you know through the
planning and zoning and I've attended a
couple times before I learn something
every time I go I mean I would be
interested in taking but you know it's
it's worth the time it's just not a
W yeah it's all online so you can kind
of hop in and out as you choose well
right but I mean for me because this has
all been new to me it's interesting and
you know like you said you learn at
least one thing every time so and then
the very last session is all about
uh funny rules you know where guys are
trying to put up signs and is it ourwork
is it signs and all this kind of stuff
you know just some of the uh
funny court cases that we find ourselves
involved in throughout the
year yeah it' be
interested so how would we go about that
if we wanted do we have to sign up
individually or I think you could do it
either way I was talking to Eric about
it like if you wanted them to pay for it
first or you could pay for it and
then so on on Planning and Zoning you
Jim is signing us all up we just let Jim
know we're going and he's been taking
care of that might be like a group sales
or something with yeah the other thing
you get is you get probably an inch and
a half fit notebook of all the stuff so
you get you know paper copies of way
more detailed than what they cover on
you in the weathers in addition to all
the other stuff so just you know getting
that handbook is so if you want to sign
and you and I you want sign us all up
making copies of the application oh
okay I'll try just just find out
if we should do it on our pay it on our
own or you don't want to pay it on your
own okay yeah well you can
pay I don't know but it's just you know
easier to have the down pay right I was
going to say have them pay right off the
yeah
okay you use a credit card or he'll take
a purchase order I don't know I don't
know Jim's always just taking care of or
yeah I'm sure Jim has something with
them but you do have to let them know
that you're going to go right yeah you
know you have so they they do two things
one they send you an email with the zoom
link so that you can watch a thing yeah
in the other you'll get the uh the
handout book you in the mail delivered
to your house oh okay so and and that's
worth you want you should have our
emails and stuff
so I would call J and say Jim if you're
signing up four or five people here we
need these three people added
in yeah okay so he probably doesn't have
to make all those application no I mean
although I think each
one I'm not sure okay can we just ask
can we can we just say to Jim Jim at us
three
on or me or whatever yeah all right well
you want to do it I
don't I mean he's already doing it I
don't
know do you want to talk yeah so how
many one two three and then you're
going he's already going I'm I just
don't know if
I don't know how to get on this thing
you need to learn how to do Zoom come on
oh I know how to do Zoom well that's all
you need yeah okay it's not like
anybody's going to call on you right
it's not like anybody's even going to be
able to seees up too
much so do you want us to fill this out
or fill this out and give it to you
right
now um I don't know if
you did you not much yeah it's not much
there that it takes you got to have your
address in your
email bar yeah if you want to probably
be easier we just give it to you and
then sign us
up I don't have my glasses so I'm G do
the best
can oh you're do great good much better
than
[Music]
I oh so how about this one it says no I
can't attend a seminar but would like to
purchase a copy of the seminar
materials that would be much better I'd
rather just read
it all
right they don't do it they don't do it
in person at all
any
no work out it just worked out too good
doing it on Zoom you know you're sitting
there with the front seat so to speak
and uh you if you want as long as your
computer's not buffering you up that's
the only problem with zoom
meetings I'm going to gu just get this
delivered I don't even really need to
give
email yeah right like to purchase one
copy now the
copy it's just the is it a little yeah
oh I didn't check that
box you'll get it
yeah if I didn't check the right thing I
couldn't read it yeah just I'll go to
the class nobody's going to send the
skate Trooper out your house check on
why you haven't
it is just all lawyers so I don't
know and I don't know is there anybody
else on this committee anymore or or we
here I haven't seen Brad in a
while didn't
know no I'm just saying that you know if
you want to if there was anybody else
make sure that they got it yeah that's
thought I wonder if he would want to do
this or you know you can get in touch
with
him even if this is in March
right what I'm doing not actually do the
webinar but get the
information let me get let
Saturday for you it's the same price
Saturday you could do yes or no and then
just that's the that's
[Music]
the so I should just leave that yeah
whatever is there like a certification
like a certific certificate or something
did you get from it do you know I think
I can't
remember I think you do I think he do
because I think last year and then they
asked me um the town clerk lady um she
said to me anytime you get one of those
give us a copy and we'll put it in your
file yeah never done that
far that's what you told
have a question about Scott's Tree Farm
trees I remember that was isue that came
that I like in the pond a couple years
ago wasn't supposed to pull all those
trees
out yeah he
was cuz we we went back and for he he
decided Well we decided to clear um the
brush like that you could get and leave
the big trees there just because I was
like you would need a
CR more visible right
[Music]
now in the summer you don't even notice
it I
notic you could
drag but it like
the so it's kind of
like kind of thing because you could get
one of those things that yeah you know
and then the the Woody debris isn't
really necessarily bad for because it's
cover and it provides areas for Habitat
eggs and you know I get it so it's not
like yeah it's an
ice like functionally it's not you know
not the worst thing you could put in
there right and then I was I was the big
thing I was worried about
was would just cause you know more
disturb a lot more
yeah especially if it's been in there
for years and how many turtles do we
have
that we talk
about like there's there that many
turtles is that what the issue well the
ones that Hank was talking about like in
the
letteres Spott
Turtle I'm
tured yeah very worried about the turt
some of the things that act has the
conditions like some of the stuff that
you can you have to be careful in vience
because we
regulate um land use and not specific
like animal for that's why I like the
condition to and he does have he's very
knowledgeable yeah you just have to like
when you're issuing permits deliberating
it just kind of keep in mind that you're
not like his protection is a fo I mean I
think that was one of the things that I
had no idea of when I came to this thing
understanding that there were turtles
you know whatever like I never thought
that that was part of it and it is a big
part of yeah but you can't like
specifically like that exclusionary
fence since it's outside wetlands and it
just targets that one species you can't
really force that through the W act like
if it
was filling the wetlands that was a wood
turtle habit that that would be totally
for through it but the like exclusionary
for like one particular plant or animal
species it doesn't
really safy panel that keep your keep it
separate you ever seen a wood
tur I've
box
tur that's the
snap doesn't
protect they should be
though
prot yeah know it's
interesting I have a good picture of we
the meeting so stop
can make a motion but he's trying to
find his pict of the turtles tur oh just
like
boxt sh
like like little
almost how big big very inside this one
small but uh I've seen them
about as big as this and then smaller
half that
size wow I see the way that it's all
like got all kinds of
serrated like grooves yeah grooves it's
really a cool looking
I se like walket they're at the park
where they're I should say that one time
I stopped because there was turtle in
the road
yeah I make a motion we adjourn I second
all in
favor thank
you Happy New Year everyone